# Collectd Self-Contained Bundle

This is an attempt at bundling collectd in a completely relocatable and
self-contained manner.  This was initially motivated by the Cloud Foundry
integration, but might find application elsewhere.  Cloud Foundry really likes
having self-contained apps, and dislikes using system paths to install things.

## Goals
 - Installable to any path in the host filesystem without additional config

 - Runnable as non-root

 - Runnable in both containerized and traditional Linux environments

 - Support all Linux distros

 - Support all of the existing plugins

 - Not require any modifications to the collectd Makefile (configure options
     are OK)

 - Be relatively lightweight (ideally under 100MB uncompressed)

## Approach

The basic technique here is to try and do what container engines do to create
portable apps, except without using kernel namespaces.  One of the goals is to
be able to run as non-root and within already existing containers so we can't
just package it up with something like _runc_, since creating containers on
Linux effectively requires root (technically kernels with user namespace support
can support non-root containerization but it requires pre-configured root-user
configuration to map the users).

We could try and recompile collectd to be statically compiled, but this is
complicated to get right, and would ultimately result in a larger size since
there are a lot of plugin modules that share dependencies (and statically
compiling the plugins into a single collectd binary would require modifying the
collectd code to not use `dlopen` on plugin files).

Instead of static compilation, the `LD_LIBRARY_PATH` envvar that the Linux
dynamic loader uses is perfect for the job.  We can bundle all of the libraries
that collectd and its plugins depend on into a single dir and point the loader
to it.  The `collect-libs.sh` script is responsible for determining the
libraries to pull into the repo from the build image.

Finally, the dynamic linker/loader used to run collectd must be swapped out for
the one used on the build machine for maximum portability.  This is essentially
what containers do when they provide their own `/lib64/ld-linux-x86_64.so.2`
file in the container image, but in our case, we have to patch the ELF
executable for collectd to tell it to use that loader.  The
[patchelf](https://nixos.org/patchelf.html) tool is used for that.  This seems
to be relatively safe.

This attempts to reuse the [collectd Install
script](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-collectd-installer) to some
extent, as well as the config templates that are based on the [integrations
repo](https://github.com/signalfx/integrations).  Finally,
[gomplate](https://gomplate.hairyhenderson.ca/) is used instead of sed for a
much cleaner and robust templating system.

### Python
Python is a bit more involved because it has a lot of `.py` files in its
standard library that must get bundled in and configured for use.  This isn't
too hard and just involves some copying and manipulation of
`PYTHONPATH`/`PYTHONHOME`.

### Java
Currently this doesn't support Java plugins.  This should be possible to add
at some point.

## Installation and Running
`make collectd.tar.gz` will create a bundle from the current repo.  Once you
have a bundle, you should extract its contents to whatever directory on
whatever Linux distro you want.  It contains a single dir called `collectd`
which has everything needed.  Collectd is run with the `run.sh` script in that
dir.  You **cannot** execute the `sbin/collectd` binary directly.  The `run.sh`
script expects at a bare minimum the SignalFx api token provided as an envvar
called `ACCESS_TOKEN`.

```sh
$ ACCESS_TOKEN=abcdefg collectd/run.sh
```

The following envvars can be passed to the run script:

 - `ACCESS_TOKEN` (required) - The SignalFx API Token for the org you want to send metrics to
 - `HOSTNAME` (optional) - Value to override the hostname of the machine.  This
     will be automatically filled in if not provided.
 - `NO_SYSTEM_METRICS` (optional) - If this envvar is set to anything, system
     metrics will be disabled in the built-in config files.
 - `SFX_DIM_<dim_name>` (optional) - Extra dimensions can be specified by this
     envvar.  For example, to send an extra dimension called *app_instance_id*
     with a value of '5', use an envvar of `SFX_DIM_app_instance_id=5`.
 - `LOG_FILE` (optional) - The file path to write collectd logs to.  Defaults
     to the `<bundle install dir>/log/collectd.log`

This will run Collectd with the collectdmon tool that handles automatically
restarting collectd should it crash.

## Collectd Configuration
To add plugins, just add them to the `collectd/plugins` directory once the
bundle is extracted.  If a plugin requires pip dependencies, install them into
the `collectd/lib/python2.7/site-packages` dir.

Plugin configuration is handled like vanilla collectd -- simply add files to
the `collectd/etc/managed_config` dir.

## Notes
This has been tested on Ubuntu 14.04 and Centos 7 but needs a lot more testing
as well as an automated test suite.

## Versioning
This bundle is versioned based on the underlying collectd version with a `-<num>`
label that increments for each release of this bundle between collectd
versions.  For example, a version of `5.7.0-4` indicates the fourth release of
this bundle based on collectd 5.7.0.

## TODO
 - Automated testing across multiple Linux distros
 - Vendor all of the Python plugins with this (similar to what's in the
     collectd-build-ubuntu repo in the `plugins` dir)
 - Add Java support
